docs/source/output.rst, before:

Output description
==================


*ThorAxe* has two command-line programs, `transcript_query` and `thoraxe`. The
first downloads from Ensembl_ the inputs for the second.


transcript_query
----------------

::

    transcript_query PAX6 -l homo_sapiens,mus_musculus,xenopus_tropicalis,danio_rerio

Running the previous line is going to create a `PAX6` folder with an `Ensembl`
subfolder. That last folder contains four files with information downloaded
from *Ensembl*. In this case, the information corresponds to the transcripts
and exons from the human *PAX6* gene and all their one-to-one orthologs in the
indicated species:

::

    PAX6
    └── Ensembl
        ├── ensembl_version.csv
        ├── exonstable.tsv
        ├── sequences.fasta
        ├── tree.nh
        └── tsl.csv

The `ensembl_version.csv` file contains a table with information about the 
download date and hour together with the *Ensembl* version.

thoraxe
-------

We can run `thoraxe` in the `PAX6` folder that `transcript_query` created with
the *Ensembl* data:

::

    thoraxe -i PAX6

*ThorAxe* is going to look for the `Ensembl` folder with the input data and is
going to create a `thoraxe` folder containing the final and intermediate
results of the study.

::

    PAX6
    ├── Ensembl
    │   ├── exonstable.tsv
    │   ├── sequences.fasta
    │   ├── tree.nh
    │   └── tsl.csv
    └── thoraxe
        ├── _intermediate
        │   ├── chimeric_alignment_1.fasta
        │   ⋮
        │   ├── cluster_data.js
        │   ├── cluster_plots.html
        │   ├── gene_ids_1.txt
        │   ⋮
        │   ├── msa_matrix_1.txt
        │   ⋮
        │   ├── subexon_table.csv
        │   ├── subexon_table_1.csv
        │   ⋮
        │   └── transcript_table.csv
        ├── s_exon_table.csv
        ├── msa
        │   ├── msa_s_exon_10_0.fasta
        │   ⋮
        │   └── msa_s_exon_9_0.fasta
        ├── phylosofs
        │   ├── s_exons.tsv
        │   ├── transcripts.pir
        │   ├── transcripts.txt
        │   └── tree.nh
        └── splice_graph.gml



The `s_exon_table.csv` file has the tidy (denormalized) output data for
the **orthologous exonic regions (s-exons)**. Each row is an observation of an
s-exon in a particular transcript. Rows are in order, following the s-exon rank.
That means that the concatenation of the s-exon sequences for each
transcript gives the protein isoform sequence.

The `splice_graph.gml` is the splice graph of s-exons in all the
transcripts/species using the human-readable *Graph Modelling Language* (GML)
format. Each node and edge has conservation information, where conservation
means the fraction of species showing that particular node (s-exon) or
connection.

The `msa` folder has a multiple sequence alignment for each s-exon, e.g.
`msa_s_exon_10_0.fasta`. This MSAs can be easily used as a seed to
look for homologous sequences in different databases by using hmmsearch_.


phylosofs
~~~~~~~~~

The `phylosofs` folder has the needed inputs for the structural and mollecular
modelling pipelines of PhyloSofS_. In particular, these files use a single
unicode character to represent each s-exon. The mapping between the id
for *PhyloSofS* and the one of *ThorAxe* (*ExonCluster*_*ChimericBlock*) is in
the `s_exons.tsv` file.

The `transcripts.pir` has the annotated sequence using the PIR format.

The list of transcripts for each gene is in `transcripts.txt`


Intermediate outputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `_intermediate` folder has intermediate files and states from the *ThorAxe*
pipeline. In particular, `cluster_plots.html` has the interactive plots of the
chimeric alignments, with the possibility to show the `constitutive` value
calculated for each subexon.



.. _Ensembl: https://www.ensembl.org/index.html
.. _hmmsearch: //www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/hmmer/search/hmmsearch
.. _PhyloSofS: https://github.com/PhyloSofS-Team/PhyloSofS

Commit message:

Add a warning about the interactive plots

docs/source/output.rst, after:

Output description
==================


*ThorAxe* has two command-line programs, `transcript_query` and `thoraxe`. The
first downloads from Ensembl_ the inputs for the second.


transcript_query
----------------

::

    transcript_query PAX6 -l homo_sapiens,mus_musculus,xenopus_tropicalis,danio_rerio

Running the previous line is going to create a `PAX6` folder with an `Ensembl`
subfolder. That last folder contains four files with information downloaded
from *Ensembl*. In this case, the information corresponds to the transcripts
and exons from the human *PAX6* gene and all their one-to-one orthologs in the
indicated species:

::

    PAX6
    └── Ensembl
        ├── ensembl_version.csv
        ├── exonstable.tsv
        ├── sequences.fasta
        ├── tree.nh
        └── tsl.csv

The `ensembl_version.csv` file contains a table with information about the 
download date and hour together with the *Ensembl* version.

thoraxe
-------

We can run `thoraxe` in the `PAX6` folder that `transcript_query` created with
the *Ensembl* data:

::

    thoraxe -i PAX6

*ThorAxe* is going to look for the `Ensembl` folder with the input data and is
going to create a `thoraxe` folder containing the final and intermediate
results of the study.

::

    PAX6
    ├── Ensembl
    │   ├── exonstable.tsv
    │   ├── sequences.fasta
    │   ├── tree.nh
    │   └── tsl.csv
    └── thoraxe
        ├── _intermediate
        │   ├── chimeric_alignment_1.fasta
        │   ⋮
        │   ├── cluster_data.js
        │   ├── cluster_plots.html
        │   ├── gene_ids_1.txt
        │   ⋮
        │   ├── msa_matrix_1.txt
        │   ⋮
        │   ├── subexon_table.csv
        │   ├── subexon_table_1.csv
        │   ⋮
        │   └── transcript_table.csv
        ├── s_exon_table.csv
        ├── msa
        │   ├── msa_s_exon_10_0.fasta
        │   ⋮
        │   └── msa_s_exon_9_0.fasta
        ├── phylosofs
        │   ├── s_exons.tsv
        │   ├── transcripts.pir
        │   ├── transcripts.txt
        │   └── tree.nh
        └── splice_graph.gml



The `s_exon_table.csv` file has the tidy (denormalized) output data for
the **orthologous exonic regions (s-exons)**. Each row is an observation of an
s-exon in a particular transcript. Rows are in order, following the s-exon rank.
That means that the concatenation of the s-exon sequences for each
transcript gives the protein isoform sequence.

The `splice_graph.gml` is the splice graph of s-exons in all the
transcripts/species using the human-readable *Graph Modelling Language* (GML)
format. Each node and edge has conservation information, where conservation
means the fraction of species showing that particular node (s-exon) or
connection.

The `msa` folder has a multiple sequence alignment for each s-exon, e.g.
`msa_s_exon_10_0.fasta`. This MSAs can be easily used as a seed to
look for homologous sequences in different databases by using hmmsearch_.


phylosofs
~~~~~~~~~

The `phylosofs` folder has the needed inputs for the structural and mollecular
modelling pipelines of PhyloSofS_. In particular, these files use a single
unicode character to represent each s-exon. The mapping between the id
for *PhyloSofS* and the one of *ThorAxe* (*ExonCluster*_*ChimericBlock*) is in
the `s_exons.tsv` file.

The `transcripts.pir` has the annotated sequence using the PIR format.

The list of transcripts for each gene is in `transcripts.txt`


Intermediate outputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `_intermediate` folder has intermediate files and states from the *ThorAxe*
pipeline. In particular, `cluster_plots.html` has the interactive plots of the
chimeric alignments, with the possibility to show the `constitutive` value
calculated for each subexon.

.. warning: `cluster_plots.html` loads the `cluster_data.js` file that includes 
all the information needed to plot all the generated multiple sequence alignments 
using *Plotly*. It can freeze the tab when a lot of sequences/species are used or 
if the computer hasn't enough resources available.


.. _Ensembl: https://www.ensembl.org/index.html
.. _hmmsearch: //www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/hmmer/search/hmmsearch
.. _PhyloSofS: https://github.com/PhyloSofS-Team/PhyloSofS
